OSDOCS#8399: Migrated the ConfigMap and S2I webhook tutorials from the ROSA Workshop (#75631)
openshift/openshift-docs: cloud_experts_tutorials/cloud-experts-deploying-application/cloud-experts-deploying-s2i-webhook-cicd.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="cloud-experts-deploying-s2i-webhook-cicd"]
= Tutorial: Using Source-to-Image (S2I) webhooks for automated deployment
include::_attributes/attributes-openshift-dedicated.adoc[]
:context: cloud-experts-deploying-s2i-webhook-cicd
:source-highlighter: coderay

toc::[]

//rosaworkshop.io content metadata
//Brought into ROSA product docs 05-07-2024

Automatically trigger a build and deploy anytime you change the source code by using a webhook. For more information about this process, see link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/latest/cicd/builds/triggering-builds-build-hooks.html[Triggering Builds].

.Procedure

> . In your terminal, run the following command to get the GitHub webhook trigger secret:

Reviewer: Give the why before the how: "To get the GitHub webhook trigger secret, in your terminal run the following command:"

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get bc/ostoy-microservice -o=jsonpath='{.spec.triggers..github.secret}'
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
`o_3x9M1qoI2Wj_cz1WiK`
----
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
You need to use this secret in a later step in this process.
====

> . Run the following command to get the GitHub webhook trigger URL from the OSToy's buildconfig:

Reviewer: Same comment as before.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc describe bc/ostoy-microservice
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
[...]
Webhook GitHub:
	URL:	https://api.demo1234.openshift.com:443/apis/build.openshift.io/v1/namespaces/ostoy-s2i/buildconfigs/ostoy/webhooks/<secret>/github
[...]
----

> . In the GitHub webhook URL, replace the `<secret>` text with the actual secret you retrieved. Your URL will look like the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. In the GitHub webhook URL, replace the `<secret>` text with the secret you retrieved. Your URL will look like the following:
```

> . In the GitHub webhook URL, replace the `<secret>` text with the actual secret you retrieved. Your URL will look like the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. In the GitHub webhook URL, replace the `<secret>` text with the actual secret you retrieved. Your URL will resemble the following example output:
```

+
.Example output
[source,text]
----
https://api.demo1234.openshift.com:443/apis/build.openshift.io/v1/namespaces/ostoy-s2i/buildconfigs/ostoy-microservice/webhooks/o_3x9M1qoI2Wj_czR1WiK/github
----

. Setup the webhook URL in GitHub repository.
.. In your repository, click *Settings > Webhooks > Add webhook*.
+
image::ostoy-webhook.png[Add Webhook]
+
.. Paste the GitHub webhook URL with the `Secret` included into the "Payload URL" field.
.. Change the "Content type" to `application/json`.

> .. Click then *Add webhook* button.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. Click the *Add webhook* button.
```

+
image::ostoy-webhookfinish.png[Finish Add Webhook]
+
You should see a message from GitHub stating that your webhook was successfully configured. Now, whenever you push a change to your GitHub repository, a new build automatically starts, and upon a successful build, a new deployment starts.

> . Now, make a change in the source code. Any changes automatically trigger a build and deployment. In this example, the colors that denote the status of your OSToy app are selected randomly. Change the box to only display grayscale.

Reviewer 2: Is this an example of a way to test to make sure the process is working? IF so, I wonder if that should be spelled out, ie  "To test the configuration, do this...."

+
.. Go to the source code in your repository link:[https://github.com/<username>/ostoy/blob/master/microservice/app.js].
.. Edit the file.
.. Comment out line 8 (containing `let randomColor = getRandomColor();`).
.. Uncomment line 9 (containing `let randomColor = getRandomGrayScaleColor();`).
+

[source,javascript,highlight='2-3']
----
7   app.get('/', function(request, response) {
8   //let randomColor = getRandomColor(); // <-- comment this
9   let randomColor = getRandomGrayScaleColor(); // <-- uncomment this
10   
11  response.writeHead(200, {'Content-Type': 'application/json'});
----
+

> .. Enter a message for the update such as "changed box to grayscale colors".

Reviewer: Add comma: "Enter a message for the update, such as..."

.. Click *Commit* at the bottom to commit the changes to the main branch.

> . In your cluster's web UI, click *Builds > Builds*, displaying that the build is "running" then shows "complete". After this build is completed, the deployment begins. You can also check the status by running `oc status` in your terminal. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. In your cluster's web UI, click *Builds > Builds*, displaying that the build is "running" then shows "complete". After this build is completed, the deployment begins. You can also check the status by running `oc status` in your terminal. 
```
```suggestion
. In your cluster's web UI, click *Builds > Builds* to determine the status of the build. After this build is completed, the deployment begins. You can also check the status by running `oc status` in your terminal. 
```

+
image::ostoy-builddone.png[Build Run]

> . After the deployment has finished, go back to OSToy app in your browser. Access the *Networking* menu item on the left. You see that the box color is limited to grayscale colors only.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. After the deployment has finished, return to the OSToy application in your browser. Access the *Networking* menu item on the left. The box color is now limited to grayscale colors only.
```
